Hello and welcome.
First of all we need to make sure that we've got guimpe installed on our computers.
Now if you've already got it installed and you know it's version two point eight point twenty you'll
want to jump forward.
Otherwise let's make sure we've got it installed.
Now gimp comes as standard on a lot of Linux distribution so you may already have it installed and you
might have an old version installed.
And because this course is going to start in version two point eight point to zero.
It is important that you have that version or greater.
So you can follow along with the course now because GIMP is a free program and its open source.
That means that someone can grab the gimp program and make it into their own whatever.
And there was a version of guimpe called guimpe shop a few years back and that is still around and it
was kind of stolen from the original developer and is full of narced these so I would avoid it and just
get the standard gimp installation.
Now when you go to WW dump gimp dot org you will find that the the landing page has a big red button
on it with saying on it saying download two point eight point to zero.
We go ahead and click on that we get a couple of other options and we can download gimp.
Now if you are on a Mac or Linux you'll have a different page or if it's detected your operating system
incorrectly you can show downloads for the other operating systems.
There now is around seventy four megabytes in size.
It will vary depending on the platform that you're installing it for.
But once it has downloaded go ahead and click the installation and start going through the usual process
of installing it.
If you install it to a customized location that's fine.
I am going to do a stock installation.
So we just let that install and I'd like you to do the same as well.
Now after a few minutes has passed you should have gimp installed on your computer and throughout this
course you will often be presented with the challenge and I whole heartedly encourage you to take the
challenge by the horns and do it even if it seems simple at first because it really does solidify your
knowledge and the challenge for this particular lecture is I'd like you to install the latest version
of gimp and then go ahead and start the program.
Now if you already have gimp installed do check its version if you've not got the latest version.
Install the latest version of gimp and then I'd like you to jump straight into the next lecture.
Now the reason for that is rather than doing anything in GIMP is gimp itself on its first launch can
take several minutes to open on my computer.
The one I'm recording this on it took about two minutes to start and my older Mac threw in the other
room.
It took about 10 to 15 minutes I had to go grab a cup of tea as we do in England.
Whilst I was waiting.
But we have some important information that's useful for you in taking this course.
So let the next lecture play and I will see you again shortly.